MONDAY, 8 AUGUST 2022
TEXT: 2 KINGS 18 : 1 - 12
TOPIC: THERE WILL ALWAYS BE A WITNESS

2 KINGS 18 : 1 - 12 NIV

1:In the third year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, Hezekiah son of Ahaz king of Judah began to reign.

2:He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem twenty-nine years. His mother’s name was Abijah daughter of Zechariah.

3:He did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, just as his father David had done.

4:He removed the high places, smashed the sacred stones and cut down the Asherah poles. He broke into pieces the bronze snake Moses had made, for up to that time the Israelites had been burning incense to it. (It was called Nehushtan.)

5:Hezekiah trusted in the Lord, the God of Israel. There was no one like him among all the kings of Judah, either before him or after him.

6:He held fast to the Lord and did not stop following him; he kept the commands the Lord had given Moses.

7:And the Lord was with him; he was successful in whatever he undertook. He rebelled against the king of Assyria and did not serve him.

8:From watchtower to fortified city, he defeated the Philistines, as far as Gaza and its territory.

9:In King Hezekiah’s fourth year, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, Shalmaneser king of Assyria marched against Samaria and laid siege to it.

10:At the end of three years the Assyrians took it. So Samaria was captured in Hezekiah’s sixth year, which was the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel.

11:The king of Assyria deported Israel to Assyria and settled them in Halah, in Gozan on the Habor River and in towns of the Medes.

12:This happened because they had not obeyed the Lord their God, but had violated his covenant—all that Moses the servant of the Lord commanded. They neither listened to the commands nor carried them out.

THERE WILL ALWAYS BE A WITNESS

While the Northern Kingdom, Samaria, was totally lost in idolatry and rebellion against God through the leadership of their king, the Southern Kingdom, Judah, on the other hand, had a young king, Hezekiah, who totally devoted his heart and life to the service of Yahweh. 

He is described as someone who "did what was right in the eyes of the Lord" and rid the country of all idolatrous objects and worship places (vs. 4). His commendation is that "there was no one like among all the kings of Judah, either before him or after him" (verse 5). This gave him the courage to break away from the dominion of the Assyrian threats and secure victory over the Philistines. 

God will always have a witness for Himself and for the sustenance of a pure and righteous generation, despite human depravity.

QUESTION: Will you choose to be like King Hezekiah and stand out for the glory of God and be a blessing to your generation?

PRAYER: Come what may, I am determined that, by the power of the Holy Spirit, I will never compromise my faith in You, in Jesus name, Amen.

Food for the Day - 2022