WEDNESDAY, 1 MARCH 2023
TEXT: MARK 10 : 17 - 31
TOPIC: SALVATION IS NOT FOR THE HIGHEST BIDDER

MARK 10 : 17 - 31 NIV

17:As Jesus started on his way, a man ran up to him and fell on his knees before him. “Good teacher,” he asked, “what must I do to inherit eternal life?”

18:“Why do you call me good?” Jesus answered. “No one is good—except God alone.

19:You know the commandments: ‘You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal, you shall not give false testimony, you shall not defraud, honor your father and mother.’”

20:“Teacher,” he declared, “all these I have kept since I was a boy.”

21:Jesus looked at him and loved him. “One thing you lack,” he said. “Go, sell everything you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, follow me.”

22:At this the man’s face fell. He went away sad, because he had great wealth.

23:Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, “How hard it is for the rich to enter the kingdom of God!”

24:The disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said again, “Children, how hard it is to enter the kingdom of God!

25:It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God.”

26:The disciples were even more amazed, and said to each other, “Who then can be saved?”

27:Jesus looked at them and said, “With man this is impossible, but not with God; all things are possible with God.”

28:Then Peter spoke up, “We have left everything to follow you!”

29:“Truly I tell you,” Jesus replied, “no one who has left home or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields for me and the gospel

30:will fail to receive a hundred times as much in this present age: homes, brothers, sisters, mothers, children and fields—along with persecutions—and in the age to come eternal life.

31:But many who are first will be last, and the last first.”

SALVATION IS NOT FOR THE HIGHEST BIDDER

It is the natural inclination of human beings to be proud about what they earn or possess, even if it is a gift from someone richer and, or, more powerful than them. 

Although the rich young man demonstrated what we may consider an excellent attitude towards keeping the Ten Commandments, it became obvious that he had failed in the one fundamental commandment: thou shall love the Lord thy God with all your heart. But his heart was sold out to his wealth so much so that the thought of living without it sent him away from Jesus, dejected and sorrowful.

We live in an age and time where wealth is worshipped, both within and outside of the Church. An individual's worth is measured by the quality and quantity of wealth he/she has amassed, irrespective of its source. Regarding such people, Jesus said: it is better for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for them to gain His kingdom! 

What takes precedence in your life today: the pursuit of wealth or Jesus Christ?

QUESTION: On a scale of 1-10, how does the love you have for Jesus compare with your love for wealth?

PRAYER: Dear Lord Jesus, give me the courage to see wealth as a servant to be used to serve Your will for my life. Amen.

Food for the Day - 2023